Mithril update 2025-02-05 (#537)
IntersectMBO/cardano-updates: blog/2025-02-05-mithril.md

---
title: Mithril Team Update
slug: 2025-02-05-mithril
authors: jpraynaud
tags: [mithril]
hide_table_of_contents: false
---

## High level overview

> This week, the Mithril team has created the transaction that activates the switch to the next 'Pythagoras' Mithril era: it will occur at transition to the Cardano epoch `539`. They have also started announcing the upcoming bump of the minimum version of `glibc` required to run the Mithril pre-built binaries on Linux.
> 
> The team has also kept implementing the incremental certification of the Cardano database: they worked on the implementations of the client library, the client CLI and the WASM client, and they started implementing monitoring and dashboarding. Additionally, they started working on the refactoring of the 'mithril-common' library and the simplification of the dependency builder in the aggregator.
> 
> Finally, the team worked on dropping support for pre-built binaries for MacOS x64 architecture, and attempted to fix some flakiness in the end-to-end tests in the CI.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This week, the Mithril team created the transaction to activate the switch to the next ‘Pythagoras’ Mithril era, which will occur at the transition to Cardano epoch 539. They also started communicating the upcoming bump in the minimum version of `glibc` required to run Mithril pre-built binaries on Linux.

The team continued implementing incremental certification of the Cardano database, working on the client library, client CLI, and WASM client. They also began implementing monitoring and dashboarding. Additionally, they started refactoring the ‘mithril-common’ library and simplifying the dependency builder in the aggregator.

Finally, the team worked on dropping support for pre-built binaries for macOS x64 architecture and attempted to fix some flakiness in end-to-end tests in the CI.
```
